RealLifeDeveloper: jdepend-maven-plugin
=======================================

A Maven plugin to generate reports based on software design quality metrics generated by
[JDepend](https://github.com/reallifedeveloper/jdepend). The plugin was inspired by the one from
[MojoHaus](https://www.mojohaus.org/jdepend-maven-plugin/). The main reason that this new plugin was created was that the MojoHaus one
was not being generated correctly using recent versions of Java and Maven.

Even though this plugin takes inspiration from the one from MojoHaus, the code for this plugin was written from scratch, using, e.g.,
JAXB to simplify the parsing of the JDepend XML report. The layout of the report has also been changed, especially the way that
information about packges is presented. Another change is how `package-info` is handled: it is now not reported as an abstract
class, there is instead a flag showing if it is available in a package or not.

You can argue about the relevance of the metrics generated by JDepend, but there are a few reasons they may be useful:
- The report tells you if there are cyclic dependencies between packages. This is something you may want to fix.
- You see if some packages have an unexpectedly high number of incoming (afferent) or outgoing (efferent) dependencies.
- The "instability" and "distance" measures may be difficult to grasp at first, but it makes sense to have, e.g., a domain layer (in
domain-driven design terms) that is abstract and with no dependencies to other packages, and an infrastructure layer that is concrete
and with no incoming dependencies. In both cases, the distance would be 0.

You are free to use this code in your own projects as you see fit, see the [license](LICENSE).

If you encounter any problems or have any suggestions for improvements, please use the Github issue tracking system:
https://github.com/reallifedeveloper/jdepend-maven-plugin/issues

If you would like to contribute to this project, please take a look [here](CONTRIBUTING.md).

The plugin is available on Maven Central, so you can use it directly in a Maven project:
```
<reporting>
    <plugins>
        <plugin>
            <groupId>com.reallifedeveloper</groupId>
            <artifactId>jdepend-maven-plugin</artifactId>
            <version>${jdepend-maven-plugin.version}</version>
        </plugin>
    </plugins>
</reporting>
```

To build with all quality checks enabled:

    mvn -DcheckAll clean install

To create a Maven site with documentation, including Javadoc and an example of the reports generated by this plugin, in
`target/site/index.html`:

    mvn -Pcoverage,pitest clean integration-test site

For more information, see <https://reallifedeveloper.com/>.
